# Chapter 5: Let's get hooked

## Props

React Props are like function arguments in JavaScript and attributes in HTML.
To send props into a component, use the same syntax as HTML attributes:

```js
const myElement = <Car brand='Ford' />;
```

## useState()

The React useState Hook allows us to track state in a function component.

State generally refers to data or properties that need to be tracking in an application.

```js
const [state, setState] = useState();
```

## React's Reconciliation Algorithm(React Fiber)

The **Reconciliation Algorithm** in React is how the decision to re-render the component is made. In the browser, DOM manipulation is expensive and time consuming, both in mounting and unmounting. Part of what makes React very performant is its reconciliation algorithm.

## Virtual DOM

The Virtual DOM is a theoretical DOM tree generated by React when a change is made to a component’s state. This is modeled after the state of your application upon modification of the state, for example, after calling this.setState(). React uses what is called a “snapshot” to make this comparison and analysis between the DOM before the update, and the DOM after. This is the point in time when React utilizes its reconciliation algorithm.

[Read More](https://www.loginradius.com/blog/engineering/reacts-reconciliation-algorithm/#:~:text=Overview-,The%20%E2%80%9Creconciliation%E2%80%9D%20algorithm%20in%20React%20is%20how%20the%20decision%20to,performant%20is%20its%20reconciliation%20algorithm.)

## Diffing Algorithm

React compares the virtual copy of Real DOM to an updated Copy of Virtual DOM, compares or picks out the changes, and finally renders it to real Dom. This process is called Diffing and the algorithm used is called Diffing Algorithm.
